wiki/1

§ Writing Fractions in HTML

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

⸺ published 2008-07-01T22:00:00-07:00

**Fractions** are so much a part of our life. 
We see them everywhere.
And with pen and paper we write them frequently.

But how do you write them on the computer‽
How do you write them in //HTML//‽

How do you write fractions like ''1''⁄,,10,,((,)) ''3''⁄,,7,,((,)) and ''999''⁄,,1000,,‽

§§ Using a Slash

Most people who want to write a fraction on a computer use the //slash// character.
It's a character on most keywords, and look like this....

**/**

So, for example, a fraction written using a //slash// might look like....

3 / 7

While this might get you by, it's hardly what you'd write with pen and paper.

(The "line" should be more horizontal.
And the numerator should be up top.
And the denominator should be down under.)

§§ HTML Fraction Entities

//HTML// does have a small limited amout of special //HTML entities// for certain fractions.
Namely....

¼ (one quarter)

½ (one half)

¾ (three fourths)

You can write these fractions with the follow HTML entities....

	| Fraction | HTML Entity | Decimal Entity | Hexadecimal Entity |
	|----------|-------------|----------------|--------------------|
	|    ¼     |   &frac14;  |     &#188;     |       &#xBC;       |
	|    ½     |   &frac12;  |     &#189;     |       &#xBD;       |
	|    ¾     |   &frac34;  |     &#190;     |       &#xBE;       |

However, what happens if you want to write a fraction besides these 3 fractions‽

That's where the HTML [[fraction-slash]] comes into play.

§§ HTML Fraction Slash

With the HTML [[fraction-slash]] you can write any fraction you want.
For example, here's one....

''5''⁄,,9,,

The key to writing fractions, in HTML, this way is the HTML [[fraction-slash]] entity.  This is created with the following HTML entity....

	&frasl;

Just a note, you can write this same HTML entity using its //decimal entity// and //hexadecimal entity// variations, as....

	&#8260;

	&#x2044;

These two variations — the //decimal entity// and the //hexadecimal entity// — would be useful in cases where you cannot use the HTML ``&frasl;`` entity.
Like in [[xml]], [[rss]], or [[atom-format]].

Now, just using the HTML [[fraction-slash]] entity, by itself, is really not enough.
Consider if you wrote something like the following....

1&frasl;10

... it will look like....

1⁄10

... which, as you can see, doesn't look right.

What we want is the //numerator// to be up top, and the //denominator// to be down bottom.
To do this we use the **HTML sup Element** and the **HTML sub Element**, respectively.

So, the code ends up being....

	<sup>1</sup>&frasl;<sub>10</sub>

Which gives you....

''1''⁄,,10,,

Which looks closer to how a fraction should look like.

And that's how you write a fraction in HTML.
